Welcome, everyone. In this video,
we'll be going over how to set up and use a GPU instance on
Amazon Web Services and
we're just going to give you some reasoning for why would you even use a GPU.
In general, GPU's are much faster than
CPU's for processing certain types of data like matrices.
So, as you know,
GPU stands for graphical processing unit.
So, the graphical part in graphics such as video games,
we use a lot of matrices,
and they're very optimized for doing matrix calculations really fast,
and so that doesn't slow down your CPU.
Now, you might be wondering how this relates to machine learning if you're not
familiar with some core concepts machine learning.
So, machine learning, we like to use matrices a lot to speed up computation,
and doing it over very large data sets.
So, we want to use GPU just so that
our training of machine learning model is quicker than running on just a CPU,
just because time is valuable and we don't want to waste time.
So, knowing how to set up a GPU on
Amazon Web Services and running a machine learning model to train on some data set
is very useful and if you're asking why use
an AWS instance like a home computer with a GPU installed.
Well, because, as I said before, machine learning,
right now has been training on very large data sets,
so maybe your computer is also very not,
not as powerful as a huge Amazon Web Services server.
So, it will take longer than running on
the server and you also can't really use a computer
for much of anything else if it's taking all its processing power training on that model.
So, the benefit of using
an Amazon Web Services instance is that you can just train the model,
exit out of it, and then don't worry about,
and wait for it to finish training and just leave it.
And then, come back to the instance and see your trained model saved,
and you don't have to stare at the screen the whole time.
So, what we'll be doing in this video is creating
a GPU instance with deep learning libraries pre-installed.
So, this would be like an Amazon machine image.
It's really helpful, because personally,
I've tried to install TensorFlow and Keras and all these frameworks,
and it's been kind of a headache on my own computer but
having Amazon server that
just has it all pre-installed and ready to run, is just really nice.
So after that, after creating the instance,
we're going to clone a TensorFlow repository,
and then run one of their programs which trains a simple model for recognizing digits.
So, we'll be jumping on to my computer and show you guys just how to
launch a GPU instance versus a normal EC2 instance.
So, it might look a little smaller and moved over here a bit.
So, I'll just make it a little bigger.
So, we are on the Amazon Web Services console.
So, you just want to head to EC2 and then here you want to launch a new instance.
This is kind of familiar from before when we
already launched one of these before but in this case,
we want to choose Deep Learning AMI with CUDA.
If you don't know what CUDA is,
it's basically the language that
the GPU uses to run things and if you have a GPU enabled,
you can translate some of the code written for the CPU and translate it,
so that the GPU can run it.
So, we're just going to use this and
that has all Tensorflow and Keras installed, so you don't need to worry about it.
So normally, I've using the t2.micro which is
just a really weak computer and it's free to eligible.
For machine learning purposes,
we want to run fairly fast, not take too long.
So, we want to use a GPU and this case we want to use the g2.2xlarge.
Nothing very specific about this,
it's just it has a GPU and well,
it's just that we like to use.
One note about this,
is this does cost more money than the free tier micro just because it takes up
more resources for Amazon so they want to make
sure that they get their money's worth for selling this.
So next, we want to just configure the instance details.
You can pretty much go through all of this,
not worry about too much.
I give you a little warning about how everybody can SSH
into things if they have
the key but that shouldn't matter too much because we're going to create our own.
So, we will create a new key pair.
You could use your own, if you have existing one should you want but I'm just
going to create new one just for showing how to do this.
So, we'll call it GPU2 and download the key pair.
As you can see here,
I already have a GPU.pem from previously testing this,
and now I have that pem file and I want to go to launch instances.
So now, it's launching right now and we want to view instances.
So, as you can see here,
a little bit, there we go.
I zoomed up and here it is initializing.
So, one thing before we want to, while it's loading,
is to change the permissions on that file and currently it's in my downloads and GPU.
So, that's the file.
This will be different for you if you're running
Windows or MAC but I'm running Ubuntu which is a flavor of Linux.
And, here we can just go into terminal and change the permission on a file.
So, chmod 400 and then GPU.
If you're a little confuse on where I'm getting these commands from,
it will make more sense once the instance is done running.
So, here if I actually go into connect,
you can see here that it has a bunch of instructions,
one for using is in PuTTY if you're on Windows,
finding the key file and then what you have to change your permissions on that key file.
So, as you can see here our chmod 400 GPU2, did that.
So now, we actually want to connect to the server itself.
We just run copy this and just run it.
It may or may not fail the first or second time,
but that's dependent on how fast this load sets of.
Taking a while, so we're going to cancel that, connection refused.
Don't be afraid about this.
Just give it a couple tries and it should eventually work.
There you go, so it is just asking if you want to remember
this connection to the server, just type yes.
Still waiting, so this is just for home directory.
So now, we have all set up.
It's easy to instance with a GPU enable.
So, now we want to actually use this and see it in action.
So, what we're going to do is run this file called mnist_deep.py.
This is basically, if you don't know what mnist is, it's a bunch,
it's a huge data set created by machine learning researchers to help recognize
handwritten digits and then this is
located in the TensorFlow repository just because it's
a very common hello world for machine learning.
So, what we're going to do is clone this repository,
TensorFlow and then CD into that directory.
So, if we go into my computer,
and see whether it's connected to the Amazon Web server,
here we can just run again and,
this is some bunch of set messages,
and then you can see here,
it's step zero training accuracy point eight and just rapidly jumps up to 94 percent,
88 percent, config jumping around,
it seems like it's stabilizing more, 100 percent.
Yeah, this is, it's on like step
1,200 and this data set has about
70,000 images so you can imagine this would take a while.
Now, this is running on GPU so it's even faster than normal,
and it's still going to take a decent amount of time.
If you're going to run this on your own computer and I've tried it on
my own Ubuntu computer without the GPU,
it just immediately takes up all the CPU and just makes it loud and hyped up the fan,
and basically I can't really click my computer for anything else if I'm training
this and to make sure it's constantly powered because it's going to kill my computer.
But the benefit of running it on Amazon Web Services is that you can just let it run,
estimate when it's going to finish and just
come back when it's finished and just have a saved model there.
So, you don't have to waste time just staring at
your computer or tiptoeing around your computer,
making sure it doesn't turn off.
So yeah, that's the use for GPU on Amazon Web Services.
It's really popular use for machine learning just so,
we can train things a lot faster and
we don't have to worry about it running on our own computer,
and setting up environments.
It saves a lot of time.
Stay tuned for some more videos in the future and thank you.